# Economic Overview

Juno´s economic system is designed to foster a self-sustaining economy where incentives are aligned to drive security and decentralization of the Juno Network.

Participants in this economy include validators, developers and delegators.

The native network incentive structures is pre-set in the Juno Protocol at genesis but subject to change based on the flexible evolution of the economy. All changes to the structure can be voted in or out by Juno delegators and validators. Not only does the native asset secure the network but gives onchain governance voting rights. Incentives follow a pre-set game-theory model that has been crafted to strongly incentivize early adopters and gradually decreases as fees generated by p2p transactions and usage of decentralized applications on Juno make up for the decrease over time. These protocol-based rewards are distributed across the active delegated stake/validator set. More structural details can be found in the incentive structure tab \(Below the economic overview\).

Developers play a crucial role in the Juno economy. They are a core economic driver and deliver value by building out the network infrastructure/tooling and open source decentralized applications. For this reason the community pool has one of the biggest genesis allocations in the entire Cosmos ecosystem. The primary role of the community pool is to support these initiatives by providing a funding kickstart not to be confused with funding independent projects entirely that could use alternative ways of allocating capital to a cause. Support may go to initiatives that directly add long-term value to the Juno Network native asset and its participants at large.

